------------------------------
# Art Direction Bootcamp Day 1
> Things I wish I knew before becoming and art director:
------------------------------

Leads set the tone/motiviate the team Get people excited on what they're working on.
Keep the negativity to yourself put the positivty out.
Be happy/ Understand you can't know everything.
Delegate tasks to senior artists.
Hire to your weakness.
Giving ownership to people is a big deal. Let them own the assets do not micromanage.
Directors give direction not always solutions.
Diversity is good but also creates situations that can drive a wedge in the team.
Leave your ego at home break rules for the right reasons not because you want control.

Select leads by how much you don't know and how well you can work together/cover your ass if things go bad.
Chat with artists - social aspect is very important in a lead position 

---
# Art Direction Bootcamp Day 1
> The Art of Pre-Production
---

## Common Mistakes
	* Not Considering Presentation
	* Overestimating Pretty Pictures
	* Concepts that pretend to provide answers
	* Focusing on small self-contained items rather than systems
	* Avoiding difficult gameplay and how it affects the art
	* Creating art Bibles too early

## What did we do
	* Hired concept team
	* Simulated gameplay
	* Agility

## Planning for team
	* identified key positino and people
	* collected concepts so everyone would be production when they came on board
## Consciously building your team
	* isolated the team in room
	* Everyone had a brand new machine - Fresh start
	* setting the critique tone
## achieving buy-in ( They all felt empowered)
	* everyone could effect change
	* provided concepts that challenged the team
## Maintaining buy-in

* What is the theme/setting of the game?
* What are the design goals?
	* How do they affect the art direction?
		* What do you have to communicate
* How is the game going to be presented to the player?
* Try lots of interesting things in concept first so people can see it
* Pre-vis gameplay movie creates buy-in gets the team really excited to work on it more
	* Identifies what you missed in the game before actually getting into gameplay.
	* Find out what questions you should be asking based on the gameplay video not what you think will be important.
	* Morale increase for entire team
	* Video/Moving consitution for the game
	* Recuriting tool
	* Internal Marketing tool - pitched to publishers
The team matters
try to identify and ask the right questions
work large to small
questions with answers are still god questions
presnetation is the kay
push the boundaries and challenege convention
tailor preproduction needs based on your goals


---
# Art Direction Bootcamp Day 1
> Creating a believable characters
---
Tapping into the universal
The heros journey
Called to action by incident->
Hero support and inspired by mentors->
Pass a threshold that begins transformation->

The collective unconcious.
Populated by instincts and ideas.

Theme and motiviation universal truth shared by all cultures
Love/Injustice/Freedom/Honor/Liberty/Vengance/Survival/Fear/Guilt 


Design clothes not costumes
Capture characters in extreme poses to get data for yor animators to be able to create blend shapes
Contextual animations help connect the character to the world
secondary animation on hair or gear controlled by physics will privde visual interest and overlapping motion
Reflect the characters growth throughout the entire performance

